Add guide for customizing your storefront (#57)
solidusio/edgeguides: docs/customization/customizing-your-storefront.mdx

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Customizing your storefront

In this guide, we're going to show you an example of how to customize your storefront. In
particular, we're going to add a hero image to the hero section of the home page:

![Hero image placeholder](/img/customizing-your-storefront/hero-image-placeholder.png)

## Installing the frontend

> With Solidus 3.2, installing Solidus would automatically install[SolidusStarterFrontend][], which is

Reviewer: Missing link for SolidusStarterFrontend? Or this is just a syntax I don't know?

Author: It's an... "implicit link name shortcut" :p From https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax#link:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/61476/184312614-f00275db-6ed2-4515-b623-d4ac1025bc41.png)

I should fix that space between "install"  and the link, though :)

Reviewer 2: @gsmendoza FYI this doesn't seem to be working in the [preview](https://2c3489d1.edgeguides.pages.dev/customization/customizing-your-storefront), so it probably needs to be explicit.

Author: @aldesantis I forgot to add the link for SolidusFrontend :p Fixing it...

> the new frontend solution for Solidus. As a Rails application template, it copies all the Solidus

Reviewer: I'd move this reference to 3.2 in an info box somewhere in the page. Something like "Before 3.2, we used to do XYZ, here's the link to the legacy solution, etc etc". For the majority of the new users, this information will just be confusing and they should see a clear main way of doing things without distractions. WDYT?

Author: @kennyadsl I'll try this out:

* Merge Intro and "Installing the frontend" section.
* Move Solidus installation background to info box.

TODO

frontend code directly to your Rails app. This makes the frontend code directly accessible to your
application. If you're familiar with customizing views and assets on a regular Rails app, you
already have the knowledge to customize the frontend of a Solidus application.

For the rest of the guide, we'll assume that you have a running Solidus application with
SolidusStarterFrontend as your storefront.

## Editing a view

If we inspect the home page, we'll see that the hero container has the following HTML code:

```html
<div class="hero__container">
  <div class="hero__message">
    <h1 class="hero-title">
      The only eCommerce platform you’ll ever need.
    </h1>

    <p class="subtitle">
      Build, customize and scale your store with no limits or license fees.
      Solidus is the free, open-source eCommerce framework for
      digitally-native brands, fast-growing online businesses and pragmatic
      developers.
    </p>
  </div>
</div>
```

> If we search for views with the CSS class `"hero__container"` in your Solidus app, we find

Reviewer: Love that you mentioned the search, it puts readers in the mindset they will need to adopt for the rest of the changes. 👍

`app/views/spree/home/_hero.html.erb`. This partial was copied to your app during the installation
of SolidusStarterFrontend.

Let's use the [`image_tag`][image_tag] helper to try and add a placeholder for the hero image in
that partial:

```html
<div class="hero__container">

>   <%= image_tag('hero-image') %>

Reviewer 3: What we've been doing in other places when modifying code is adding the diff for it ([example](https://github.com/solidusio/edgeguides/blob/338608abf9f0101c0717f5acb121acb00e717f03/docs/customization/customizing-the-backend.mdx?plain=1#L41)). WDYT?

Author: Sounds good. I'll update the code using diff :+1:

![Missing hero image error](/img/customizing-your-storefront/missing-hero-image-error.png)

## Running the frontend specs

If you try and run the [RSpec][] test suite at this point, you may also see some specs fail because
of this error:

```
$ bundle exec rspec spec/requests/spree/home_spec.rb

...

Failures:

  1) Home layout provides current user to the searcher class
     Failure/Error: <%= image_tag('hero-image') %>

     ActionView::Template::Error:
       The asset "hero-image" is not present in the asset pipeline.
     # ./app/views/spree/home/_hero.html.erb:3:in `_app_views_spree_home__hero_html_erb___8794442347239906_218740'
     # ./app/views/spree/home/index.html.erb:1:in `_app_views_spree_home_index_html_erb__1597336803422850061_218720'
     # ./spec/requests/spree/home_spec.rb:18:in `block (2 levels) in <top (required)>'
     # ------------------
     # --- Caused by: ---
     # Sprockets::Rails::Helper::AssetNotFound:
     #   The asset "hero-image" is not present in the asset pipeline.
     #   ./app/views/spree/home/_hero.html.erb:3:in `_app_views_spree_home__hero_html_erb___8794442347239906_218740'

...

```

> When you installed SolidusStarterFrontend to your app, you also received some some specs for testing

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When you installed SolidusStarterFrontend to your app, you also received some specs for testing
```

the frontend. These specs are part of the SolidusStarterFrontend test suite itself, that is, they
are used in testing the SolidusStarterFrontend project. By copying these specs to your app, you get

> a good starting test suite for testing your application.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
a good starting point for testing your application.
```

A lot of "test" or variations in the sentence. Maybe we can get rid of this one :slightly_smiling_face:

## Adding an image

We'll be using this image as the hero image for the home page:

![Hero image](/img/customizing-your-storefront/hero-image.png)

Following the [Rails Assets Pipeline guide][], we're supposed to save this image in the
`app/assets/images` directory. Once we save the image there, the home page now looks like this:

![Home page with unstyled hero](/img/customizing-your-storefront/home-page-with-unstyled-hero.png)

As you can see, we'll need to update the stylesheets in order to move the image above the hero
message.

## Customizing a stylesheet

If we search for the word "hero" in the stylesheets of the app, we would find
`app/assets/stylesheets/spree/frontend/components/presentation/_hero.scss`:

```scss
.hero {
  background: $color-background-dark;
  color: $color-copy-bright;
  padding: 10rem 0;

  &__container {
    @extend %section-spacings;
    display: flex;
  }
}
```

Like the hero partial from earlier, this stylesheet was copied to the Rails app when SolidusStarterFrontend was installed on the app.

> SolidusStarterFrontend stylesheets are written with [Sass][].

Reviewer: This looks a bit off here. Can we try to add this information in the previous paragraph? Something like:

> Like the hero partial from earlier, this stylesheet (written with [Sass][]) was copied to the Rails app when SolidusStarterFrontend was installed on the app.

Author: I changed it to "Like the hero partial from earlier, this [Sass][] sstylesheet was copied to the Rails app when SolidusStarterFrontend was installed on the app."

Let's update the stylesheet to

1. change the flex direction of the container to `column`, and
2. add a bottom margin to the hero image

```scss
.hero {

>   // ...

Reviewer 3: Same that before. Does a diff look nice?

  &__container {
    // ...
    display: flex;
    flex-direction: column;

    img {
      margin-bottom: 3rem;
    }
  }
}
```

With those changes, the hero section now looks much better:

![Home page with styled hero](/img/customizing-your-storefront/home-page-with-styled-hero.png)

## Summary

Since Solidus copies all of the starter frontend code to your app, modifying frontend views and

> assets is straightforward. You're also provided an initial test suite to test drive your frontend

Reviewer: I'd avoid the term `straightforward`. I can see how people without Rails experience can feel overwhelmed at this point and maybe it's not ideal for them to see that they should have understood it at this point. What if we rephrase into:  

> modifying frontend views and assets is similar to any other Rails application.
